VectorShift 
Frontend Technical Assessment Instructions 
Thank you for taking the time to interview with us at VectorShift! As part of the 
interview process, we would like you to complete a frontend technical assessment. 
You can find all files necessary for the assignment in the /frontend/src and 
/backend folders. Feel free to make any changes to the provided files, including 
adding new files, deleting existing files, installing new packages, and modifying any 
provided code. Please use JavaScript/React for the frontend and Python/FastAPI for 
the backend. 
The assessment consists of four parts, which are detailed below. You are encouraged 
to read all parts of the assessment before starting so that you can plan your approach. 
You can run the frontend code by navigating to the /frontend directory and running 
(1) npm i and (2) npm start. You can run the backend code by navigating to the 
/backend directory and running uvicorn main:app --reload. 
Feel free to reach out to recruiting@vectorshift.ai if you have any questions. 
Part 1: Node Abstraction 
In /frontend/src, you will find a folder called nodes. This folder contains JavaScript 
files for four types of nodes (inputs, outputs, LLMs, and text). Each of these nodes 
contains different text, content, and input/output connections (called “Handles”), 
but there is also a significant amount of shared code between nodes. 
Currently, you could create a new node by copying an existing node into a new file 
and making modifications, but this approach ends up rewriting significant amounts of 
code. While this approach is tractable for a small number of nodes, it becomes 
difficult to maintain as the number of nodes increases. 
Your task is to create an abstraction for these nodes that speeds up your ability to 
create new nodes and apply styles across nodes in the future. 
Once you have created your abstraction, make five new nodes of your choosing to 
demonstrate how it works. Don’t spend too long worrying about what the nodes 
actually do; you should use this as an opportunity to showcase the 
flexibility/efficiency of your node abstraction. 
Part 2: Styling 
The frontend files you receive do not apply any significant styling. Your task is to style 
the various components into an appealing, unified design. You can use the 
VectorShift’s existing styles as inspiration if you’d like, but you are also free to create 
your own design from the ground-up. You can use whatever React packages/libraries 
that you would like. 
Part 3: Text Node Logic 
The Text node included in the /frontend/src/nodes has a field for text input. We 
want to improve the functionality of this text input in two ways. 
First, we want the width and height of the Text node to change as the user enters 
more text into the text input, improving visibility for what the user types in. 
Second, we want to allow users to define variables in their text input. When a user 
enters a valid JavaScript variable name surrounded by double curly brackets (e.g., “{{ 
input }}”), we want to create a new Handle on the left side of the Text node that 
corresponds to the variable. For examples of what this should look like, you can try 
using a VectorShift Text node or watching Tutorials using the VectorShift Text node. 
Part 4: Backend Integration 
In the /backend folder, you will find a very simple Python/FastAPI backend. Your task 
is to build an integration between the frontend you completed and this simple 
backend. 
On the frontend, you should update /frontend/src/submit.js to send the nodes 
and edges of the pipeline to the /pipelines/parse endpoint in the backend when 
the button is clicked. 
On the backend, you should update the /pipelines/parse endpoint in 
/backend/main.py to calculate the number of nodes and edges in the pipeline. You 
should also check whether the nodes and edges in the pipeline form a directed acyclic 
graph (DAG). The response from this endpoint should be in the following format: 
{num_nodes: int, num_edges: int, is_dag: bool}. 
Once you have updated the button and the endpoint, you should create an alert that 
triggers when the frontend receives a response from the backend. This alert should 
display the values of num_nodes, num_edges, and is_dag in a user-friendly manner. 
The final result should allow a user to create a pipeline, click submit, and then 
receive an alert with the number of nodes/edges as well as whether the pipeline is a 
DAG.



Additional Feature.
If we were to add a "Run" feature, the flow would be:

You click "Run".
The system sees you have an Input Node named input_1.
It pops up a box: "Please enter value for input_1".
You type "hello".
It passes "hello" to the Text Node, which passes it to the Transform Node, which turns it into "HELLO".